---
title: How you'll learn
module: Preface
order: 2
type: learn
plenary_question: Where can you find advice on choosing technology for your service?
plenary_answers:
  - answer: The Digital Service Standard
    correct: false
  - answer: The technology section of the Service Manual
    correct: true
---

This course will begin with a lot of code examples for you to type out. **Don't copy and paste these**. Manually typing them will help you get used to writing code.

Sometimes, you might be asked to type something without being shown what it does or why it works. Don't worry - to avoid overloading you, some more complicated concepts are kept back for later.

## Can I learn to code?
Almost certainly.

If you have basic maths skills, have ever learned a language (including your first language), and are able to type, you can probably learn to code.

It's just a matter of practice and motivation.

Computers weren't around for most of human history. No one is born with a talent for writing code. Everyone learns.

## How are modules structured?
Each module contains three kinds of content:

* **Lessons** will teach you new concepts and reinforce these with short exercises. All the code you need to write is provided in the text of the lesson.
* **Videos** summarise the content of a module. If you are on a machine that cannot access Youtube videos, don't worry - these are recommended but not vital for progressing in the course.
* **Project** tasks will show you how to apply the concepts we learn in each module to your own project.

Tasks for you to attempt will look like this.

Each lesson is also sized according to difficulty. More difficult lessons will take longer to complete, but since everyone learns at a different pace, we can't predict how long an individual lesson will take you to complete.



**Small** lessons should be completable within an hour
**Medium** lessons may take an hour or two
**Large** lessons probably require about half a day

## What if I get stuck?
These lessons are intended for beginners, so you shouldn't need much existing knowledge to follow along with them.

If you get stuck, go to the #ddat-codelabs channel on the cross-government digital Slack team. Your fellow learners and mentors are on this channel.

If you can't access to that Slack team, you can also email the [DDaT Codelabs volunteer team](ddatcodelabs@gmail.com).

If you are having trouble with a project task, you may find it useful to look at the code for an example app we built. You can copy this code if you need to, but we recommend writing your own.

When you're ready, [start thinking about the app you'll build.](http://ddat-codelabs.herokuapp.com/module/0/lesson/3)
