---
title: An idea for your app
module: Preface
order: 3
type: learn
---
We've learned a little about designing interfaces on the web, and how to accurately describe interfaces with pen and paper.

Let's start to think about your own app, which you'll be working on for the duration of this course.

## Good ideas
You are free to use or take inspiration from these example apps:

* An **event management app**, where an organiser can create an event and members of the public see details of the event, and maybe even reserve a place
* A **room booking app**, where users can see the rooms available in a building and make a booking. Maybe the app will warn if a booking overlaps with an existing one.
* A **library app**, where a librarian can add books to a virtual library and members of the public can see the books available, and maybe even request to borrow one.
* A **TV show tracker**, which keeps track of TV shows the user has entered, and sends them reminders when new episodes are released.
* A **conference app**, which allows delegates to see the events on offer, as well as allowing conference organisers to add and maybe even change events.
* A **job board** which admins can add job adverts to and which normal users can browse through and maybe even apply.

## Must-haves
In order to get the most out of this course, try to pick an idea that follows these criteria.

If you're familiar with agile delivery, you can consider these your **non-functional requirements**.

* **Store some kind of data**. This could be a list of books, events, outfits, TV shows, user profiles or anything else.
* **Allow a user to interact** with the app and modify it, rather than simply present content to the user
* **Serve at least two kinds of user**. This could be as simple as "normal" users and administrators.

## Minimum viable product
Don't worry about everything being perfect at this stage.

We will be **continuously refining** your concept throughout this course, and there will be opportunities for you to revisit the choices you make here later.

If the app you have in mind has a ton of features, just focus on the simplest of those for now.

If, after a module or two, you are struggling to keep up, consider whether you are trying to implement too many features.

Although you will have a working app by the end of this course, it will not be a "complete" one. Part of working in an agile way means being open to [continuous improvement](https://www.gov.uk/service-manual/service-standard/iterate-and-improve-frequently).

<div class="todo">
		<h2>To do</h2>
		<p>Decide on a concept for your app and think about some basic features</p>
</div>
