---
title: Your first webpage
module: Building webpages
order: 1
type: learn
plenary_question: A web server...
plenary_answers:
  - answer: Is used to write HTML
    correct: false
  - answer: Responds to client requests by sending webpages
      correct: true
  - answer: Must run on specialised, expensive computer hardware
    correct: false  
---

> Make sure you've completed the **[set-up guide](/set-up)** before proceeding.

As we saw in the last module, the web is a way of trading webpages between computers.

Any computer can become a web **server**, sending webpages in response to requests by **clients**.

Now we know a little about how they are sent around the web, let's consider what exactly webpages are.

## Hypertext
Hypertext documents are connected to each other with **hyperlinks**.

Before hypertext, documents were isolated. If you wanted to delve into detail on a particular topic, you would need to stop and spend time seeking out a more detailed source.

Nowadays, we can use a hyperlink to send you to [the Wikipedia page on hypertext](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypertext). Wasn't that easy?

Webpages are closely related to the idea of hypertext.

## Hypertext markup language
Hypertext was a great idea, but it needed an implementation - a language to write the documents in.

That was hypertext markup language, or **HTML**.

Documents written in HTML are interpreted by web browsers in a predictable way. Using HTML, human authors can be confident that whatever device their readers are using, they will get an experience close to what the author intended.

> HTML isn't a programming language in the normal sense. It is a **markup language** - a way of structuring content to be interpreted by a web browser.

## A basic webpage
Let's consider a very basic webpage, or HTML document.

```
<html>Hello world</html>
```

Although it may not look like it, that is a complete, valid webpage.
