---
title: Introducing HTML
module: Building webpages
order: 2
type: learn
plenary_question: HTML adds...
plenary_answers:
  - answer: Functionality to webpages
    correct: false
- answer: Style and presentation to webpages
    correct: false
  - answer: Structure to webpages
    correct: true
---

We use HTML to add structure to our content.

Because all web browsers understand and interpret HTML in the same way, we can use it to tell a web browser what purpose each part of the content in our webpage serves, for the benefit of human users.

## Tags
You write HTML by adding special **tags** to your content.

Here is some HTML content, surrounded by tags:

```
<p>Use the force, Luke</p>
```

This is a **paragraph tag**. By writing this, we're telling the web browser that "Use the force, Luke" is a bit of normal paragraph text.

You'll see that there is a tag either side of the content. These are the **opening tag** and **closing tag**. Notice that the closing tag has an extra forward slash inside it.

Here's another tag:

```
<h1>Surf the net</h1>
```

This is a **level 1 heading tag**. Just like if we were writing a Word document, a top-level heading is usually going to be the title of our webpage.

We could also use ```<h2></h2>``` or any other heading tag through to ```<h5></h5>```. All these different levels of heading let us add structure to our content.

## Self-closing tags
A small number of HTML tags don't need a separate opening and closing tag. These are called **self-closing tags**.

Take a look at this tag:

```
<hr/>
```

This is a **horizontal rule** tag. It's often used to define section breaks in your content. It doesn't need any content inside it, so there is no separate opening and closing tag.

Instead, there is a forward slash before the second angled bracket.

> Most webpages contain a mixture of normal and self-closing tags. The best way to remember which tags are which is practice.
