---
title: Your first Javascript program
module: Adding interactivity
order: 2
type: learn
---
We're now going to write some simple Javascript programs.

The first line of Javascript we wrote was in our browser's developer tools console.

This isn't ideal for writing longer programs, because each line of code runs as soon as we hit the return key. We want to write several lines of code (a program or **script**) and run it once at the end.

Instead, we're going to write some javascript along with our prototypes on Codepen.

We can write code in the JS panel of a Codepen prototype.

Whenever you change what's in the JS panel, Codepen will automatically run your code afresh, and will print any results to the bottom of the console.

> If the console gets too busy, hit the "Clear" button.

<div class="todo">
	<p>Go to one of your prototypes up on Codepen, and make sure the JS panel is visible.</p>
	<p>Click the "Console" button at the bottom left of the screen to reveal a Javascript console.</p>
	<p>Follow along with the code samples, and experiment with different values and characters until you understand how each one is working.</p>
</div>

## Maths
We can use Javascript to work out simple sums.

Type the following into the JS panel.

```javascript
console.log(1+1)
```
You should see the result `2` printed to the console.

Now try a more complex sum. Use `/` for division and `*` for multiplication.

You can also use **parentheses** (brackets) to force Javascript to do some parts of a complex sum before others.


## Strings
Javascript understands several different **types** of data. We've just been using numbers. Strings are another type.

Strings are always surrounded by **quotation marks**.

The same data, such as `300` can be either a number or a string, depending on whether it's surrounded by quotation marks or not.

Javascript can do maths on numbers, but not strings.

Let's do the same sum as above, but this time we'll give it two strings.

```javascript
console.log("1"+"1")
```

You should see the result `"11"` printed to the console. Javascript hasn't done any maths on them — it has just joined the two strings together. This is called **concatenation**.

This can be useful. Let's say we want to tell a user what their age is:

```javascript
console.log("You are " + 30 + " years old")
```

We should see the result `"You are 30 years old"` printed to the console.

This is useful because we might have had to calculate the number 30 by comparing the user's date of birth to the current date.

If we had stored it as a string, we wouldn't be able to do maths on it.

Also notice the spaces after the word `are` and before `years`. When Javascript concatenates strings, it doesn't automatically add spaces.

> Always consider whether you should be using **numbers** or **strings** in your code.
