---
title: Making a menu
module: Adding interactivity
order: 6
type: learn
---
On narrow mobile screens, it's common practice to hide menus behind a button. When the user taps or clicks the button, the menu will be displayed.

If the user activates the button again, the menu hides again.

Consider the following HTML:

```html
<button id="menu-toggle">Menu</button>

<nav id="main-menu" hidden>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="#">Products</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#">About</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#">Contact us</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</nav>
```

We have a button, and a menu.

We are going to hide the menu by default, and include a class which, when applied using Javascript, will show the menu. We can hide it visually with the following CSS:

```css
#main-menu{
  display: none;
  visibility: hidden;
}

.visible{
  display: block !important;
  visibility: visible !important;
}
```

In a previous module, we considered CSS specificity, and how some CSS will override other CSS. Normally, CSS attached to an ID like `main-menu` will override that attached to a class.

We've used `!important` on both of the values in our `visible` class, to ensure they will override all others.

## Adding the class

We can use similar code to the previous lesson to show this menu:

```javascript
const menu = document.querySelector("#main-menu")
const button = document.querySelector("#menu-toggle")

button.addEventListener("click", function(){
	menu.classList.add("visible")
})
```

This looks different than the previous lesson because the user is interacting with one element, but affecting a second element.

When the button is clicked, the menu should now appear.

## Toggling the class

There is currently no way to hide the menu once it's been made visible. We want to be able to click the button a second time and have the menu vanish again.

We can adapt our code to use an `if` statement.

```javascript
const menu = document.querySelector("#main-menu")
const button = document.querySelector("#menu-toggle")

button.addEventListener("click", function(){
	if (menu.classList == "visible") {
			menu.classList.remove("visible")
	} else {
			menu.classList.add("visible")
	}
})
```

Now, we check whether the menu already has the class `visible` applied to it. If so, we remove it. Else, we add it.

## Making it accessible

The attribute `hidden` in the `<nav>` element hides it from screen readers too. If we want to make the menu visible, we'll have to think about visual and screen reader users.


> This is not a perfect solution. Can you foresee any problems with this code? Consider users who have Javascript turned off.
