---
title: Responding to user actions
module: Adding interactivity
order: 5
type: learn
---

We now know how to change how a page looks and works by adding and removing classes.

Now, let's look at how to make this happen in response to a user's actions.

Javascript allows us to set **event listeners**. We "listen" for particular events on a webpage, such as a user clicking a button, hovering over a menu, or scrolling down the page, or even waiting for the webpage to finish loading.

We can run whatever code we want once the event happens.

<div class="todo">
	<p>Delete everything from the previous lesson in the JS panel, and follow with the code examples given here. Keep the HTML and CSS.</p>
</div>

## Create an event listener

Continuing with our previous example, we want the `<h1>` text to turn red when the user clicks it.

First, let's select the HTML and save it as a variable.

```javascript
const heading = document.querySelector("h1")
```

Next, we can attach an event listener to that HTML, which will fire on a 'click' event.

```javascript
heading.addEventListener('click', function(){
	console.log("Heading has been clicked!")
})
```

You should now find that if you click the heading, the message should be logged to the console.

We can put whatever code we like inside the curly brackets.

```javascript
heading.addEventListener('click', function(){
	heading.classList.add('red-text')
})
```

If we replace the `console.log()` with the line adding the CSS class, the text should turn red when clicked.

## Other event listeners

We can create event listeners for any of the [dozens of events](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/dom_obj_event.asp) browsers support. Another popular one is the "hover" event, which triggers when a user's cursor hovers over something.

Any of these events can be attached to any HTML element on our page.

Next, we'll apply this knowledge to a real webpage.
