---
title: Create your server
module: Web servers
order: 1
type: project
---

Until now, we've been dealing purely with code that runs on the client—a web browser.

But as we learned in an earlier module, the HTML, CSS and Javascript files are **sent from a server**.

In this module, we're going to take the prototypes we've been building in Codepen and turn them into the start of a real, working app. We're going to use a different platform, Codeenvy, to do this.

## What Codenvy does
Codenvy is going to be your server.

It's more complicated than Codepen, but also much more capable.

Unlike Codepen, which runs only in your browser, Codenvy is an interface that is connected up to a **real server**.

Because of this, we can write code we want the server to run, as well as the HTML, CSS and Javascript we've already written.

> We will **only use Codenvy** from now on.

## Create a workspace

We're going to create a workspace on Codenvy.

A workspace is Codenvy's term for a server. Your app will run on this server.

We're going to call the workspace `my-workspace`. You can call it anything you want.

We're also going to choose a **stack** for our workspace. This is a collection of pre-installed software that will help us build an app quicky.

Unless told otherwise, the default options Codenvy suggests will work for us.s

<div class="todo">
<h2>To-do</h2>
<ol>
  <li><a href="https://codenvy.io/site/login">Go to Codenvy</a> and create an account</li>
  <li>Click 'Create workspace' in the left sidebar</li>
  <li>From the 'Select stack' section, choose the 'Node - Default Node Stack with Node 7' option</li>
  <li>Hit 'Create'</li>
</ol>
</div>
