---
title: Node and the terminal
module: Web servers
order: 3
type: project
---

Javascript was originally meant to run only on web browsers, but this isn't the case any more.

Node.js is a tool that allows you to write and run Javascript on the server as well.

We're going to be building our web app using Node and Javascript for several reasons:
- There's no need to learn a second programming language
- Javascript is easy and quick for beginners to work with
- Tools like the [GOV.UK prototyping kit](https://govuk-prototype-kit.herokuapp.com/) are written in Javascript

Let's write a simple Javascript program in our Codeenvy workspace, and run it using Node.

When you created your app in the previous session, a folder was created with a file `hello.js` inside it.

Delete everything in this file so we can start afresh.

Then write a simple program:

```javascript
console.log("This is a Node program")
```

> **You don't need to save the file**. Codenvy will save your changes automatically.

## Run a Node program

Let's run this program using the terminal.

If you just started Codenvy, your terminal should have only a single **prompt** in it, which will look something like:

```bash
user@6f43d9472d8d:/projects$
```

The `/projects` part of this prompt tells us that our terminal is currently looking in our projects folder.

The projects explorer is also inside this /projects folder - it's the highest folder we can access on Codenvy. ALl the code we write will be inside subfolders of this /project folder.

From looking at the projects explorer, we can see that the file we want to run is in a subfolder called `my-app`. We need to tell the terminal to look in this folder.

Type `cd my-app` and hit return.

The prompt should change to something like:

```bash
user@6f43d9472d8d:/projects/my-app$
```

Now run your program by typing `node hello` into the terminal and hitting return.

You should see your message appear in the terminal, with a new prompt appear below it:

```bash
user@6f43d9472d8d:/projects/my-app$
This is a Node program
user@6f43d9472d8d:/projects/my-app$
```

<div class="todo">Make sure your program runs successfully before continuing.</div>
