---
title: More about the terminal
module: Web servers
order: 4
type: project
---

In the last lesson, we used the terminal commands `cd` and `node`.

Let's look at what these do in detail.

The terminal works just like the Finder on a Mac, or Explorer on Windows. It lets you move into and out of folders, and run files in the current folder.

## Go home
When we open the terminal for the first time, it will be "in" a particular folder—the **home folder**. For Codeenvy, this folder is called `/projects`.

From the previous lesson, your terminal should be in a subfolder called `my-app` or similar. We can leave this folder, and go back to the home folder by typing:

```bash
cd ~
```

Whatever folder your terminal is in, typing this command will send it back to the home folder: `/projects`.

<div class="todo">Test this out by returning from your /my-app folder to /projects.</div>

## Change directory

`cd` means change directory. We can type `cd`, followed by the name of a subfolder, to go inside it.

We can also use characters like `~` as shortcuts to go back to the home folder.

In more complicated situations, we might have many subfolders inside each other, and may need to jump "out" of one folder into its parent.

Let's pretend we have a folder `/parent`, which contains a subfolder `/child`, which itself contains the folder `/grandchild`.

If the home folder is `/parent`, we can navigate in by typing `cd child` and then `cd grandchild`.

From `/grandchild`, we can jump back out to `/child` by typing:

```bash
cd ..
```

<div class="todo">Create a subfolder inside your /my-app folder and try this out.</div>

## List files
We can list all the files in the terminal's current folder by typing:

```bash
ls
```

<div class="todo">Try this out on your /my-app folder.</div>

## Run a program

We can use Node to run a Javascript program from the terminal.

We just need to type the word `node` followed by the name of the file we want to run.

Node only runs Javascript programs, so you don't need to include the `.js` file extension. `node hello` is fine.

> The terminal **must be in the right folder first**. If you make this command from a folder that doesn't contain the file you want to run, you'll get an error.
