---
title: Web frameworks
module: Web servers
order: 5
type: project
---

Regardless of what your web app does, it will have a lot in common with other web apps.

For instance, it will need to listen to requests from other clients and respond to them in the right way. Later on, it will also have to read and write from a database.

It doesn't make sense for us for write all this code from scratch every time we build a web app. It's takes time, effort and we might make mistakes.

> You might hear this referred to as **reinventing the wheel**. Wherever possible, you should write the code once, then reuse it.

## Introducing Express

To avoid reinventing the wheel, we're going to use a ready-made web framework called **Express**.

With Express, we get a lot of general-purpose functionality for free. We only need to write code specific to our own particular app.

## npm

We're going to use a tool called `npm` to install and manage Express. `npm` comes bundled with Node.

Before we install Express, we need to tell npm a little about our project.

From the `/my-app` folder, run the following terminal command:

```bash
npm init -y
```

You will then be prompted for nine pieces of information. The default answers are fine, so just keep hitting enter until you see the following message:

```bash
Is this ok? (yes)
```

Hit enter again, and you should see the normal terminal prompt return. We've just told npm that we want it to manage the current folder for us.

In the projects explorer, you should see a new file called `package.json`.

When you open the file, you should see the following:

```json
{
  "name": "my-app",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "",
  "main": "hello.js",
  "scripts": {
    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
  },
  "author": "",
  "license": "ISC"
}

```

This is where our answers have been saved. `npm` uses this file to keep track of key aspects of our app, particularly the other software it depends on to run.

<div class="todo">Make sure that you have a package.json file before continuing.</div>

## Installing Express

Our app is going to depend on Express. This makes Express a **dependency** of our app. We need to do two things:

1. Download the Express code and save it in our app
2. Update `package.json` so that `npm` knows Express is a dependency

We can do both these things with a single terminal command:

```bash
npm install --save express
```

This command may take a minute to complete.

Once it finishes, you will see a new section in `package.json` called `dependencies`. Express should be listed inside.

You will also notice a new folder called `node_modules`. Any code that we install using `npm` gets saved in there.

Sometimes, a `package-lock.json` file will also be created. You don't need to touch this file.

<div class="todo">Make sure that you have a node_modules folder and that package.json has updated before continuing.</div>
