---
title: Views and templates
module: Web servers
order: 8
type: learn
---

Our web app will eventually send HTML pages to users in response to their requests. These pages won't be static—they'll change based on data stored in the app.

For example, a blogging app may store each blog post as an entry in a **database**.

When the user visits the front page of the blog, they will see a web page with a list of the most recent blog posts.

It wouldn't be practical to store this list as a HTML file—we'd need to change it every time we published a new blog post. Ideally, we want the list to update automatically.

Instead, we need to use a **template** that the app will use as a starting point. The app will combine the template with real data, building a list that is always up to date.


## Configure views

Every screen your app shows a user is a **view**.

Our blogging app might have at least two views:

- A list of recent posts
- A detailed view of a single post

Each view is saved as a template file, and we can write code telling the app what circumstances to show that view under.

Let's configure our app to use views and templates.

Go to your `server.js` file and change it to include two extra lines:

```javascript
const express = require('express')

// Include Nunjucks code
const nunjucks = require('nunjucks')

let server = express()

// Set up Nunjucks
nunjucks.configure(__dirname + '/views', {
  autoescape: true,
  express: server
});

server.use(express.static(__dirname + '/public'))

server.listen(3000, function(){
    console.log("Server is running")
})
```

The two extra blocks of code set up a templating language called nunjucks, and tell Express that our views are located in the `/views` folder.

Nunjucks isn't part of Express, so we need to install it by running:

```bash
npm install --save nunjucks
```

We'll discuss nunjucks later in the module.

## Create a view

Let's create the `/views` folder now. Create a blank file called `index.njk` inside that folder. Write any message inside that file.

Restart your app.

> If your app is already running, you need to stop it by **closing the current terminal tab**, and restart it by clicking the blue play button. **Otherwise we won't see the changes we made.**

Even if we did everything right, we still won't see the view we've just created in the browser. We'll just see the familiar `Cannot GET /` error.

In the next lesson we'll discuss why.
