---
title: Collecting form data
module: Databases
order: 6
type: project
---

Now our form is prepared, the next step is to modify our server to collect the data and save it to the database.

When we submit a form, our browser makes a request to a URL. The data in the form is contained inside that request.

We can tell the form where to make the request to by adding some attributes to the `<form>` tag:

```html
<form action="/comment/new" method="post">
  <!-- Form inputs go in here -->
</form>
```

The `action` attribute is the URL the form will send its data to.

<div class="todo">Make sure each form in your app submits to a sensible URL.</div>

## Routing

We need to create a route in our `server.js` file that will handle requests made to that URL.

We could create a route like this:

```javascript
server.post("/comment/new", function(req, res){
  console.log(req.body)
  res.render('index.njk')
})
```

This route looks a little different to the others.

It starts with `server.post()`, rather than `server.get()`.

When our browser requests a webpage, it is normally making a `get` request (getting data from the server), so we use `server.get()` to handle that request.

When forms are submitted, the browser makes a `post` request (sending data *to* the server), so we have to use `server.post()`.

Secondly, we log something called `req.body` to the terminal. `req` is actually short for request. req.body is how we access the data submitted from the form.

Finally, `res.render('index.njk')` will respond to the request with the index view.

You have to decide which view makes sense to present to a user once their form has been submitted. If your form adds a new entry to a list, it often makes sense to send a user straight back to that list.

<div class="todo">Create a route to handle submissions from each form in your app.</div>

## Reading form data

We need to install and set up `body-parser`, an extra piece of software that will read the data that comes in a request.

Without it, we won't be able to see the data coming in from form submissions.

From the /my-app folder, run the following terminal command:

```bash
npm install --save body-parser
```

Then the following line to the top of your `server.js` file:

```javascript
const bodyParser = require('body-parser');
```

And add the following lines just above your first route:


```javascript
server.use(bodyParser.json());
server.use(bodyParser.urlencoded({ extended: false }));

// Your routes down here
// ...
```

You should now be able to test your form out. Restart your app, go to the page with the form, and make submit it with some data.

You should see the data you submitted appear in the Codenvy terminal, and your browser should show the view you named in `res.render()`.

<div class="todo">Make sure that you can successfully collect data from your users using HTML forms and routes.</div>
